The first object is a server which provide access to the database
over a network port 
for postgres it is 5432 we can change the port while creating a
our own server
1. Server

2. Database --> it is a container for other objects such as
  a. Tables  
  b.  Views
  c.  Functions
  d. Indexes

3. Table is used to store data of a database

 in a databse you can have as many  as tables possible.

All the data of a datbase is stored in tables

tables in a database  can be related by relatonships.

4.Schema an schema is a logical container for tables and
other database objects.
We can have multiple schemas in a databse.

Schemas are useful in production environment as you 
can assign  permissions to different IT proffesionals 
to perform various tasks in a specific schema.

so remember you can assign permissions to schemas to restrict 
access to various objects inside schema.

5. Tablespaces 
 
Storage location where data is stored  and
postgres have two tablespaces by default 

a. pg_default --> stores the data of the User
b. pg_global --> stores the system related data


6. Views

a. Virtual tables 
b. simplifies complex queries
c. Used to apply security for a set of records.

With the help of views you can hide the various parts of the 
table from others .
By creating views from tables you can restrict what data of tables
others can see.


7. Functions -- IN postgres functions are the blocks of reusable 
SQL code.

Can returns a scalar value of a list of records.
Can also returns composite objects.

8. Cast and operators

Cast --> Convert one datatype into another datatype
used with fucntions to perfotm conversion.
You can create custo casts to override the default. 

Operators --> Operator is a symbolic function.
You can define your own custom operators.

9. Sequences

Used to manage auto increment columns.
we can provide start value ,  max value , min value , increment number etc.

we can see the query for creating sequence must see it 
give you more insight into postgres.